hello everyone welcome back I know you
will be anticipating the lecture on join
operations I feel understanding null
values before join operations is truly
beneficial and that is why we are here
today in today's lecture let's focus on
null values in our
dbms before we step into the topic of
the day let's see an analogy that helps
us to understand the importance of null
values in
rdbms please assume this is me and I
going to register my profile to a
website if the registration form is
asking for my name in that case I will
be obviously providing my name and this
name field which is shown in the
registration form can be a mandatory
field in the form because everyone will
have their name
if the registration form asks for the
spouse name let's say I'm talking about
the registration form that is asking for
the next field which is the spouse name
here comes the problem if I am a married
person obviously I'll be having a spouse
name what if I'm not a married person so
this field I mean this spouse name field
cannot be a mandatory field in the
registration form and coming to the next
field the gender field which is shown in
the registration form this can be a
mandatory field because it may be either
male or female or transgender coming to
the next field the salary field and here
comes another problem this salary field
cannot be mandatory because this is
applicable only for people who are
employed or they are entrepreneurs or if
they have a regular income coming to the
next field the date of birth field this
field can be a mandatory field because
everyone will have their date of birth
and also the age so in this form If You
canly observe there are two fields for
example one the spouse name field and
number two the salary field which cannot
be mandatory Fields however the form
that I am referring currently is
designed in the front-end programming
language tools maybe Java or net or
python or HTML or whatsoever and all the
data that are sent from the front end
will be actually stored in the back end
obviously which is going to be the table
in the
database in the table all these fields
that we are referring to all will be the
attributes or the columns right in that
case if a married person provides values
he or she will be providing the data for
the spouse name similarly if an employed
person or an entrepreneur is filling the
form he will be providing some values
for the salary field so what I mean to
say here is what if an unmarried person
is filling the form or or a student who
is not employed anywhere who is filling
this form obviously there cannot be a
spouse name field to be precise the
spouse name value will be empty in this
case as well as salary will be empty in
this case does that mean that blank or
empty is the name of the spouse no it is
certainly not so what I mean to say here
is we should have a special value that
represents either a missing value or a
not applicable or not available value
and that is why we are here in today's
presentation which is the null values in
dbms as I already told you it is a
special value in database management
system remember if a column or an
attribute is accepting null values it
means it represents the values of
attributes that are unknown which is not
known or not applicable which is not
appropriate for that person ver or
missing this is important when we talk
about join operations and that is why
before join operations I am dealing with
the null values all these values of that
attributes are obviously for that
particular row so when a person is going
to insert a row in that row if we find a
null value it means it may be unknown or
not applicable or missing and please
remember null values is neither blank
nor zero this is very important so what
does it mean this null value can be an
unknown value or a not applicable value
or a missing value and that's what I
have meant if the value is unknown then
null values can be used if the value is
not available at that moment or maybe in
the future he may be updating whatsoever
in that circumstance it can be a null
value if the value is either missing or
not applicable in that case also it is
null values let's say we are joining two
tables and the resultant table which is
the output of the join operation
contains the rows from both the tables
let's assume there is one or more field
and the values are empty in that case it
means join is performed but the value is
missing or not applicable in that case
we need the importance of having null
values coming to the last one remember
in SQL or or SQL the structured query
language there is a constraint a special
type of condition we can enforce to the
database table that not null it means if
a field is set as not null it is a
mandatory field user has to compulsorily
give the value for example first name
can be a Nal field but not the middle
name because we can't expect everyone
should have a middle name first name and
last name may be compulsory another
example salary if we enforce not null it
means user must compulsorily provide
values anyway don't worry about this now
we will be talking about this Nal
constraint elaborately in the coming
lectures before we sign out there is an
homework activity for you here is the
table and this table is the customer
table which is populated with certain
values and the attributes are ID
customer ID customer name SSN the social
security number spouse name phone email
you can match SSN like your AAR number
what's the activity just keenly observe
this table and note down which field
should accept null values and after
identifying this post your answers in
the comment
section and that's it guys I hope you
guys enjoyed this presentation I'll see
you in the next presentation
demystifying join operations elaborately
I hope the session is informative and
thank you for
[Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
watching
